Skills and Education
=======================




Education:
University of Nebraska at Omaha
2007-2011
Graduated Magna Cum Laude with two separate degrees (~170 credits) in Information Assurance and Computer Science, with a minor in Mathematics. Favorite classes were Operating Systems, Foundations of Information Assurance, Sociology of Deviant Behavior, English Composition, and anything done online. 3.7 GPA

Papillion-La Vista High School
2005-2007
Graduated with honors and ~30 college credit hours. Led Senior Class as President and National Honor Society as Vice President. Favorite classes were AP European History, English Literature, and French. 3.7 GPA

Woodbridge Senior High School
2003-2004
This is the area's Center for Fine and Performing Arts, where I enjoyed participating in the writing program. I became enamored with art, history, and english here. Our school constantly had art shows, dance performances, theatre plays, and concerts going on and I loved it. My favorite classes were history, english, and creative writing.


Story Telling
=======================
My life is constantly changing, but I'll try to explain it the best I can.

    I grew up as an Army brat. My dad served for 20 years, and in those 20 years, we moved 8 times. Moving was always tough, but I like to think I'm much better off for it. I got the opportunity to make friends all over the country, experience all sorts of different cultures and ways of living, and best of all, get the confidence and tough skin it takes to make it in a new place. It was hard leaving one of our homes, but I luckily am the oldest of three boys, so we always had each other to hang out with.

    Constantly having to adjust to new teams and communities also made me into somewhat of a negotiator. I enjoy hearing discussions from people with different opinions, finding common ground, and then moving forward. I continue to use those skills today.
    
        The place we lived the longest (although not consecutively) was Washington D.C. Our extended family always used our house as a hotel to see the sights, which was great, and I always got brought along. I've seen the White House and all of the memorials so many times that I know them better than anyone should. I'm not complaining - this much exposure ave me a true appreciation for history and the perspective it gives. I loved reading about all of the historical figures, seeing their memorials, and in some cases, standing in the very same spots they stood. History for me is still a source of enjoyment, as it brings me comfort to hear other people's journeys. It also influences my belief that nothing should ever have to be solved twice. Having the knowledge of history gives me motivation to never repeat the mistakes of the past.
        
        Living in a big city also exposed me to a lot of different cultural experiences. I went to a high school that specializes in fine and performing arts, where plays, concerts, historical events, literature, and artwork were a constant. I was in the creative writing program, and writing continues to be one of my biggest passions to date. The freedom of expression through art was very influential and I still love visiting museums and seeing shows.
        
        After 20 years of active duty army service, my dad retired and we moved to Omaha, NE. I'd never been to nebraska and wasn't particularly thrilled with moving away from my cultural center. I kept an open mind though, and I'm glad I did. Omaha has a vibrant community of genuine people, along with the space and landscape to allow for relaxation. Gone were the days of walking about the National Mall, but in were the days free of traffic.
        
        I finished high school and went to college in Omaha. School had always been easy for me - I graduated with two degrees and a minor in four years - taking summer school every summer, even when I wasn't living in Omaha - but the hard part was figuring out what I wanted to do with my life. I knew I wanted to do something with computers and technology, but wasn't sure, so i got one degree in Information Assurance, to focus on the security side of computing, and the other degree in Computer Science, to focus on the development side of computing.
        
        To figure out if I wanted to do something more security oriented or something more development oriented, I worked a series of security jobs to see if I liked it. They were interesting and fun, but currently the security industry works by telling people how not to do things instead of teaching the right way to develop. I want to bring all positive value to the world, so I chose to lean more on my development degree. I knew this when I went to Sandia National Labs the summer before my senior year, so I really took an interest in one of my three projects, which was to develop custom software. It was a great experience that taught me a lot about developing an existing open source project. Seeing my contributions helping to give people a new capability was exciting and rewarding. I knew then I wanted to work on developing software.
        
        The next thing I had to figure out was what size and type of company it is that I want to work for. Luckily in college, I also felt it was important for me to have job experience where I could work on my teamwork and interpersonal skills. So I became a resident assistant at Scott Campus on UNO. I loved the small team atmosphere so much that I chose to apply for the resident director job to lead the group my senior year. I got hired for the job and really took to it. I was tasked with leading and developing 14 resident assistants. Our team was in charge of planning and running community events, enforcing company policies, and responding to any and all situations around the clock. Through all of the chaos, I learned a lot about what it means to be on a team and how to lead. Those 14 people became my family (I still talk with them regularly and consider them my family) and we provided each other with the support and encouragement to perform far better as a group than any one of us could have done on our own. Many of my proudest moments are from that year. I definitely want to work on a small, creative, and free-thinking team that skips corporate red-tape to focus on adding value to customers.
        
        Unfortunately, I didn't really discover this until after much reflection on my senior year and my experience at my post-graduation job at Lockheed Martin. The people are all very nice, but large corporate and government work just isn't my cup of tea.
        
        My ultimate goal is to one day have a similar experience in building software as my time as a resident director. I love helping a family of people grow and work together to be something bigger and better than any one of tis pieces. It brings a smile to my face to help someone develop as a person, work better with a team, and deliver an awesome product that adds value to an overjoyed customer.



Experience and Values
=======================










* Values/Beliefs... say something about who you are, what you value, things that really give people a glimpse into how you think, what you're energized by, and how you make decisions. These are really important to small teams as they reveal whether or not you'll gel. The best companies to work for are the ones that care about this stuff. The one's that don't aren't interested in team-building and strong culture.

Technology is cool, but at the end of the day, every product I contribute to is for a person. People, and adding value to their lives, is what motivates me. I love working on a close-knit, small, creative team where the collaboration level is through the roof. 

- Personable
- Honesty
- Simple
- Collaboration
- Freedom
- Innovation
- Growth

My favorite work experience: (Getting Liam to teach others)

My favorite tools to work with include Mac OS X, TextMate, Kod, XCode, GitHub, Google Chrome, Balsamiq Mockups, Skype, Coda, and Heroku.

* Skills... say something about what you've produced. If you're involved in any social programming communities point that out. If you've contributed to any open source initiatives share that. Point out where you're accounts are specifically where you helped out. Creative projects like Startup Weekend the Game are also great on a resume. Provide links to the tangible things you've made. Even consider providing samples of code you've written. Code that reflects your value. This is all about walking the talk. If you're green and don't have much ask the company your applying to, to throw a small application project at you. Maybe in the 8-10 hour window of work. This is pretty common and is going to be a huge barrier to entry for candidates that are only looking for a paycheck. Serious candidates will love a little coding challenge. They'll see it as a skill sharpener, and another feather to put in their application hat. It all ads up to... Look I've got skills!

C, C++, HTML5, jQuery, CSS, Networking, Security.
Steadily learning Java, iOS, and mobile frameworks like Sencha Touch and jQuery Mobile.

I've developed custom plugins for the open source project Wireshark at Sandia National Labs. I had to learn how a large established project works, and then figure out to write plugins that the operations security team at Sandia needed. The other person working with me on this project was early on in his programming education, so I did a lot of the coding for the project. We had a leader who had a full plate of work on his own, so he only had time to check in with us once a week or so. We were given all the resources we needed, and enjoyed the freedom of choosing some of the direction of the project. My choice was to write a plugin making tutorial for the Sandia operations security team membmers so that should they need to customize their plugins or write new ones, they would have the tools and education to do so.

I've created a mobile app for Android using jQTouch.
I also have several projects that are still "in progress", including a Hacker News reader with Sencha Touch, and an iOS app for caregivers looking to learn more activities they can adapt to their clients.

* Education... as is typical in resumes list your educational background. However, take a less generic approach. Write a little about how each educational experience influenced you as a person, rather than just another tool in your toolbox. Every tool has a purpose, share that purpose rather than just a check list of what's in your toolbox.


BS in Computer Science from UNO - 
BS in Information Assurance from UNO -


* Story... writing a little life story and talking about critical shaping influences is a great way to show you're not just another person in line. You've got a soul and it feel and believes things. This is one of the biggest overlooked aspects of resume writing. Funny thing is, people make decisions on what they believe more than what you can do. Your story should bring out clear points. Each paragraph should highlight a time in your life and what you learned. It's also helpful to list out books you've read. This also will reveal your interests. Don't forget to talk about what you like to do for fun. :-)

I've read and recommend:

The Long Run by Matt Long
1776 by David McCollough
Rework by Jason Fried and David Heinemeier Hansson

I'm currently reading:

The Four Hour Workweek by 

